From UG1137 Phases of FSBL Operation (https://docs.amd.com/r/en-US/ug1137-zynq-ultrascale-mpsoc-swdev/Phases-of-FSBL-Operation)

Xilinx Stage 1 (System/Board Init):
1. Put AES engine into Reset
2. Put SHA engine into Reset
3. If TPM supported
    3.1 Reset and Initialize CSU DMA
    3.2 Switch the DMA to DMA into the SHA Engine (CSU_SSS_CFG register)
    3.3 Pull SHA engine out of reset and start it up
    3.4 DMA FSBL code and required SHA padding into CSU
    3.5 Hash FSBL for measured boot (wait for SHA engine calculation to complete and read the SHA Digest Registers)
        NOTE: This seems very wrong and insecure. The FSBL should not be hashing itself, the CSU ROM should hash the FSBL
            This would imply that the CSU needs to initialize the TPM so it can place the FSBL hashes into it.
4. Save data section to duplicate data section on PS only and system resets in case of warm reset
    4.5 In case of warm reset, restore the data section (this seems weird, at which points during execution can a warm reset occur?)
5. If PS only Reset, re-enable PL programming (PCAP control & signal propagation)
6. If not an APU only reset (as far as I can tell, anything not a warm reset), System Init:
    6.1. If it is not a PS only reset and it is 1.0 or 2.0 version of the silicon, power up the PL and restore PL programming(?) isolation
    6.2. If PS only reset, unblock the FPD and LPD AIB (what does this even mean, they just write 0 to AIB control until it takes?)
    (optional step 6.3): Offer a PSU Init hook
    6.4. If Dynamic DDR is supported (with an SPD structure) (Do all DDR's have the SPD structure? If not, can we add support for them?)
        6.4.1. Initialize DDR by first determining type of DDR from an I2C EEPROM
        6.4.2. With the type determined, compute all DDR specific parameters (Dimm params, etc.). There is ALOT of code here
        6.4.3. Setup DDR Controller
        6.4.4. Setup DDR PHY Controller (how is this different than the one above?)
        6.4.5. Do DDR Phy Training (unless it is in self refresh mode. Why does this allow it to bypass this?)
    6.5. Bypass the SD card detection signal around the debouncing logic (this is becuase SD card may wait a long time to stabilize (this seems very wrong))
7. Validate Boot reason
    7.1 Read the Error status register 
    7.2 If WDT supported, check if reset was a Watchdog timeout during the last FSBL execution.
        7.2.1 If it was the case due to an LPD/FPD System WDT, clear the error, and mark for fallback image reboot
    7.3 Mark Error status register as FSBL running in progress (used to assist in the above during reboots) (what happens to this register on all the types of reboots? Is this correct?)
8. if WDT (watchdog timeout) supported and not jtag bootmode and not apu only reset, init wdt
    8.1 Initialize the WDT module, setting the WDT clock values, timeout values, and enabling its capabilities to perform a system reset.
    8.2 Start the WDT
    8.3 Restart the WDT (why? Misnamed?)
9. Put AES and SHA engines into reset
    Question: Why a second time???
10. Processor Init
    10.1 Read the Cluster ID (what the heck is this? I assume it is to detect if we are running on the APU or the RPU)
    10.2 If running on QEMU
        10.2.5 Remap the cluster ID (lots of magic numbers here). There is an unsupported mode of the R5 (R5-1 (which seems to be the second R5 core when not in lock-step mode. Can the FSBL even run out of the second core in this case? Does the CSU ROM support loading the system in this way?))
    10.3 If running on the A53, mark we are on the A53 and setup some architecture specific fsbl pointers (something arm specific?)
        10.3.1 If running the R5 (single core or lockstep?), setup equivalent state as the above (and mark mode of R5 we are running in)
        10.3.2 If running the R5 (single core or lockstep?), update the lower vector locations of the R5 Tightly-Couple Memory (TCM) and flush the data cache to write it out to the TCM
    10.4 Mark something in a global PMU register to do something with warm restart (????)
    10.5 Register Exceptions
        10.5.1 On A53, setup the sync (undef), irq, fiq, and serror-abort handlers
        10.5.2 On R5, setup the undef, swi (svc), prefetch-abort, data-abort, irq, and fiq handlers
11. If APU only reboot and on the A53, clear any pending interrupts
12. If not APU only reboot (R5 or A53 with TCM ECC supported), init the ECC for the TCM's (needs to be powered up first if on the A53). If on the A53, reset the RPU after this.
13. If not APU only reboot and DDR self refresh is supported, if not in self refresh, initialize its ecc and mark it as not reserved. If it is in self-refresh, mark it as reserved (why is there a lock ?!?!? nasty)
14. If not APU only reboot and DDR self refresh is not supported, initialize its ecc and mark it as not reserved
15. If PL clear is forced and FSBL bitstream load is supported and not a ps-only reset and not an apu only reboot, initialize the fpga
    15.1 ake PCAP out of reset and put it into write mode
    15.2 If Silicon version greater than 2, power up the PL and restore isolation (?)
    15.3 Reset the PL (assert the PCAP prog bit, wait, and then prog pcfg prog b)
    15.4 If not ultramp and not mp qemu, wait till reset started and completed
16. If not APU only reboot, board init
    16.1 If ZCU board, Board config
        16.1.1 There is ALOT of code here...all of it board specific
    16.2 If ZCU102, PCIE reset
        16.2.1 If PCIe Serdes ICM detected, toggle MIOs to reset and enable it
17. If TPM is supported, init TPM
    17.1 Initialize TPM SPI
    17.2 Setup TPM Access bits
    17.3 Get TPM ID and capabilities
    17.4 Perform TPM Self test
    17.5 Startup TPM (?)
18. If TPM is supported, measure ROM
    18.1 Send TPM commands containing the CSU ROM Digest
19. If TPM is supported, measure FSBL
    19.1 Send TPM commands containing the FSBL SHA Digest calculated previously (... so much can happen before this point, a vulnerability could have slipped in and now the FSBL is not properly measured)

On Error in above -> ErrorLockdown

Xilinx Stage 2 (Boot Device Init, FSBL Validate (this should be done much earlier :( ), and Fallback image identification):
1. Initialize the Primary Boot Device when not in JTAG
    1.1 Read Boot Mode Register as that will signify what the primary boot device is
    1.2 If the boot device requires it, initialize the CSU DMA (didn't we already do this if we support TPMs... bruh)
    1.3 HUGE switch statement for all the supported boot modes to boot from (skip if boot from a boot device not supported)
    1.4 With boot mode identified, initialize boot device (boot mode specific)
2. Validate header when not in JTAG (this seems really wrong if the FSBL is validating itself. If the FSBL image is validating a second FSBL image (and this one was already validated by the ROM), then this is probably okay)
    2.1 Read multiboot register
    2.2 Get the offset to where the fsbl image is in the primary boot device
    2.3 Read the boot header out of the Memory
    2.4 Setup the Crypto (IV, signal to PMU if FSBL is encrypted or enc only efuse is burned)
    2.5 Read eFuse and check for boot header authentication (error if RSA eFuse bit is set as this is not allowed... what does this mean... this seems janky)
    2.6 If RSA fuse set or boot header authentication set and secure boot is supported
        2.6.1 TBD
    2.7 If not doing authentication, read the image header and verify it some more
        2.7.1 TBD
3. Initialize Secondary Boot Device as a potential fallback if the image header signals another device when not in JTAG
    3.1 Big switch statement to get necessary initialization function
    3.2 With boot device identified, initialize the boot device
    3.3 Validate header (validating again.... is this for a third image??????)
4. If we are in JTAG mode, mark the RPU cores available for JTAG boot and skip to stage 4
5. Clear RPU status register

On Error in above -> ErrorLockdown

Xilinx Stage 3 (Next Stage Software Load):
1. If not APU only reset and WDT enabled, restart the watchdog (as copying can take awhile (this seems inefficient, there as to be some DMA like mechanism to do this more asynchronously so we can still kick the WDT))
2. If DDR self refresh supported, poll DDR until it is ready
    2.1 Read the PMU global controller to see if the PMU firmware is ready (some special bit, can there be a race here if the FSBL gets here faster than the PMUFW?)
    2.2  Read the DDR status register and write the ddr controller init done flag to the status register (PMU will then take DDR out of self refresh if necessary)
    2.3  Check the DDR ready status flag and if not read, poll DDR until it exits self-refresh (or timeout) and then mark reserved as false (ah, this marking specifies to the system that it is a valid memory device to use) (I love how the timeout does not return an error for xilinx.... great)
3. Validate Partition Header (how is this different from the boot headers that were verified earlier? Is it because this is next stage software and the previous headers where FSBL/BOOT headers?)
    3.1 Validate Header Checksum (32 bit sum the header, then invert it, and then compare to what is in header) (Are there even any size checks or boundary checks???)
    3.2 Check to see that partition belongs to the FSBL (what does this mean?)
    3.3 Validate the fields in the next partitions header
        3.3.1 If secure boot is supported and force encrypt is set, read the security efuse and if the secure boot efuse is set, validate that the partition is encrypted
        3.3.2 Get the destination CPU from the partition, check to see that it was an APU only reset, and check if the destination CPU is the currently running CPU (if not, we can skip the next checks and return success not partition owner), if so continue on
        3.3.3 If the destination CPU is not specified, then it implies the currently running CPU
        3.3.4 Check the partition's unencrypted data length and if not 0 and the image is authenticated or encrypted, return error
        3.3.5 Check the partition's unencrypted data length and if the execution address is less than the QSPI Linear base address start or greater than the qspi linear base address end, return error (does this restrict to booting out of QSPI??)
        3.3.6 If the image is not authenticated or encrypted, but there is encrypted data (must be the same length as the unencrypted data and total length), then return error
        3.3.7 If the image is authenticated but not encrypted, and encrypted word length is not greater total word length (this seems named funny) (encrypted length must == unencrypted length and encrypted length < total length), then return error
        3.3.8 If the image is not authenticated but it is encrypted, the encrypted word length must be greater than the unencrypted word length and must equal the total data word length. Otherwise return error
        3.3.9 If the image is both authenticated and encrypted, then encrypted word length must be greater than the unencrypted word length and the total word length must be greater than the encrypted word length. Otherwise, return error (should any of these checks actually look at the size of these length in relation to each other instead of just inequalities on their lengths?)
        3.3.10 If we are running on the RPU and the destination CPU is the A53 and we are trying to load the image into DDR address 0x40000, then we are going to accidentally clobber the TCM (as it is at that address in the R5 address space), so return error
        3.3.11 If the partition header specifies a type other than no checksum or sha3 hash, then return error
        3.3.12 Check that the destination CPU is not invalid (shouldn't this have been checked earlier?)
        3.3.13 If the destination CPU is R5 solely core 0 or core 1 and we are running in lockstep, then error
        3.3.14 If the destination CPU is R5 lockstep but we are running on core 0 alone, then error (this means we cannot change the mode once we are running on it)
        3.3.15 If the destination device is greater than dest device pmu, then return error (does this imply we can run on the PMU??? Or could this actually be PMUFW? Does the FSBL load it?)
4. If the FSBL is not the partition owner, skip this partition
5. Copy the partition to the specified destination in the partition header
    5.1 If the unencrypted word length is 0 (does this imply we are talking about an encrypted image?), then check to see if the destination CPU is already going to be loaded with a partition (we are apparently loading multiple partitions). If so, return error
    5.2 If the unencrypted word length is 0 and this is the only partition being loaded on the CPU, get the A53 exec state from the partition header (is this problematic if we are on an R5?) and set the destination CPU to have that exec state for the hand off and set the handoff address
    5.3 If unencrypted word length is not 0 and secure boot is supported and the RSA signature is present and the device is not destined for the PL, then perform the device copy of the partition from source to authentication buffer. Return error on copy failure
    5.4 If unencrypted word length is not 0 and we are writing to the PL and if XFSBL_BS (bitstream?) is supported and it is not a PS only reset and we support loading the PL from the OCM and we are not loading from the OCM or we do not support loading the PL from the OCM, then return error
    5.5 If unencrypted word length is not 0 and we are writing to the PL and if XFSBL_BS is not supported, return error
    5.6 Get the load address for the destination CPU
        5.6.1 If we are loading onto R5 core 0 and load address is in or below the TCM end address or the load address is within the BTCM address range, if the image does not fit into a single TCM bank, then return error
        5.6.2 If we are not loading onto R5 core 0 or we are loading into an address greater than TCM end address and we are not loading into the BTCM address range, do the checks for the R5 core 1 that we just did to see if in address ranges and we fit in a bank
        5.6.3 If we are instead loading onto R5 lockstep, and we are loading into and address less than tcm start + 4*bank length, check to see if we fit into 4 banks. If not return error. (so does this imply a single core only gets 1 TCM bank?)
        5.6.4 Set the load address to the validated and adjusted address
    5.7 Configure Memory
        5.7.1 If we are loading onto R5 core 0 and load address is in or below the TCM end address or the load address is within the BTCM address range, if the running CPU is not the destination CPU, then power up the R5 core 0 (return error if it doesn't power up). Initialize the TCM ECC if not already initialized
        5.7.2 If we are not loading onto R5 core 0 or we are loading into an address greater than TCM end address and we are not loading into the BTCM address range, do the checks for the R5 core 1 that we just did to see if in address ranges. if the running CPU is not the destination CPU, then power up the R5 core 1 (return error if it doesn't power up). Initialize the TCM ECC if not already initialized
        5.7.3 If we are instead loading onto R5 lockstep, and we are loading into and address less than tcm start + 4*bank length, if the running CPU is not the destination CPU, then power up the R5 in lockstep (return error if it doesn't power up). Initialize the TCM ECC if either TCM is not already initialized
    5.8 If arm r5 is defined (does that mean it is supported? Why isn't the rest of the code have these defines? Should I have different top level code for different processors we are running on? can use dest cpu in header to enforce this), disable IsR5IvtBackup (?)
    5.9 If arm r5 is defined, if the FSBL is on the r5 0 or r5 lockstep and we are loading into the TCM in the IVT region, enable IsR5IvtBackup, copy, r5 hivec, update the hivec, flush data cache, set the r5 excep vector hi vec (?)
    5.10. If we are writing to the PMU (this is the PMUFW load), if the destination address is non-zero, triger the PMUU 0 IPI (?)
    5.11 If we are writing to the PMU, wait till the PMU goes into a sleep state (this should be done before writing into the PMU RAM (why? conflict?))
    5.12 Use the device copy to vopy the partition to its destination
6. Validate the Partition (again, after copy?) (there is SO MUCH code here...) (bro, why do we load the bitstream here and they name it validate partition... it feels so wrong)
    6.1 If secure boot is supported and the partition is encrypted, copies global IV (what sets this?) to a local buffer and then updates it from the partition header. If secure boot is not enabled and the partition is encrypted, return error
    6.2 If UNPROVISIONED_AUTH_SIGN_EXCLUDE is defined (?) and the partition header has an RSA signature and authentication is not enabled for the FSBL, return error. If does not have rsa sig, mark not auth. Else, mark auth
    6.3 If UNPROVISIONED_AUTH_SIGN_EXCLUDE is not defined and the partition header has an RSA signature and authentication is enabled for the FSBL, then mark auth, otherwise, mark not auth
    6.4 Get the destination Device (bro, again... we just got it in partition copy (5.6)....)
    6.5 If BS is supported and writing to the PL and PS only reset, then skip the rest of step 6 (why must the checks above be done and not the rest for this image?)
    6.6 Get the destination device (again, but it is a pointer that is read, so it is cheap, but still, this whole thing feels like a mess)
    6.7 Get the load address for the destination CPU (again again again ahhhh)
        6.7.1 If we are loading onto R5 core 0 and load address is in or below the TCM end address or the load address is within the BTCM address range, if the image does not fit into a single TCM bank, then return error
        6.7.2 If we are not loading onto R5 core 0 or we are loading into an address greater than TCM end address and we are not loading into the BTCM address range, do the checks for the R5 core 1 that we just did to see if in address ranges and we fit in a bank
        6.7.3 If we are instead loading onto R5 lockstep, and we are loading into and address less than tcm start + 4*bank length, check to see if we fit into 4 banks. If not return error. (so does this imply a single core only gets 1 TCM bank?)
        6.7.4 Set the load address to the validated and adjusted address
    6.8 If BS supported and writing to PL and address is dummy address, then use the ddr temp address
    6.9 If encryption is enabled and secure boot is supported, initialize the AES and provide it with the IV (wait, are we reinitializing the AES for every partition?!?!?!?, it makes sense to reset it with a new IV, but is this full initialization?)
    6.10 If BS supported and writing to PL, provide hook for user config and then if PL clear is supported, do pcap init
        6.10.1 TBD
    6.11 if the partition has checksum enabled, calculate checksum. On failure, error partition.
    6.12 if authentication is enabled and secure boot is supported, if we are not writing to the PL, perform authentication, on failure error partition
    6.12 if authentication is enabled and secure boot is supported and BS is supported, validate the PL Bitstream by validating the block size and the header attributes (SHA2 is not supported? I am okay with deprecating it in favor of SHA3, unless SHA2 is more secure?). Setup (from either OCM or DDR?) and perform the PL download. On failure, reset the PL (what, why?) and if encryption is enabled, set some more pcap prog stuff (????)
        6.12.1 TBD
    6.13 if authentication is enabled and secure boot is not supported, then error
    6.14 if encryption is enabled and not writing to the PL and secure boot is supported, perform AES decrypt (error on failure)
    6.15 is encryption is enabled and secure boot is not supported, error
    6.16 if BS is defined and if writing to the PL and authentication is not enabled and if encryption is enabled and secure boot is defined and not loading from the OCM and has a TPM, perform aes set chunking and sha and reset PL (and perform PL zeroization)
    6.17 if BS is defined and if writing to the PL and authentication is not enabled and if encryption is enabled and secure boot is defined and not loading from the OCM and does not have TPM, decrypt PL into PCAP and reset PL (and perform PL zeroization)
    6.18 if BS is defined and if writing to the PL and authentication is not enabled and if encryption is enabled and secure boot is defined and loading from the OCM, aes set chunking and decrypt. On decryption failurem error and reset PL (and perform PL zeroization)
    6.19 if BS is defined and if writing to the PL and authentication is not enabled and if encryption is not enabled and not loading from the OCM, just dma directly into PL and write the PCAP.
    6.20 if BS is defined and if writing to the PL and authentication is not enabled and if encryption is not enabled and loading from the OCM, chunked BS Txfer
    6.21 if BS is defined and if writing to the PL, wait for PL programming to finish (can error on timeout or if PL enters bad state) and then reset PCAP after transfer (do we need to reset the PCAP interface after every transfer??? it is done all over the place in the code)
    6.22 if BS is defined and if writing to the PL, perform ps pl isolation removal data (?)
        6.22.1 TBD
    6.23 if BS is defined and if writing to the PL, perform ps pl reset config data
        6.23.1 TBD
    6.24 if BS is defined and if writing to the PL and if secure boot is supported, if either authentication or encrypted is enabled, set BS state of firmware to secure, otherwise, set to nonsecure 
    6.25 if BS is defined and if writing to the PL and if secure boot is not supported, set BS state of firmware to nonsecure     
    6.26 if BS is defined and if writing to the PL, provide post download hook
    6.27 If not writing to PL and not writing to PMU, check the CPU no and update the A53 exec state on sucess for handoff (I think this is a duplicate check that is done in 5.2, Xilinx.....)
    6.28 if TPM is supported, get the PCR index and if greater than 0, if not the PL index and checksum is disabled, perform SHA. If PCR index is greater than 0 and the PL index, if authentication is disabled, if encryption is enabled, finish the sha. if authentication is disabled and encryption is diabled and checksum is not enabled, perform a digest
    6.29 if TPM is supported and PCR index is greater than 0, ship the measurement off to TPM
7. if on r5 and Ivt backup is true, memcopy the lovex and updat them. Flush cache and set R5 exceptions for lovec. Restore the hivec (what is all of this?)
8. Check PMUFW for load status
    8.1 if writing to the PMU, the load is done if partition num + 1 <= no of partitions -1 and the next partition is not the pmu OR the partition num  + 1 > no of partitions -1. Otherwise, not done
    8.2 if writing to the PMU and the load is done, wakup the PMU by writing to the global controller and reading until it is awake (no timeout?????)

On Error in above steps -> ErrorLockdown

9. Mark Used RPU Cores
    9.1 tbd
10. Check early handoff
    10.1 if early handoff supported and Get the load address for the destination CPU (again again again ahhhh)
        10.1.1 If we are loading onto R5 core 0 and load address is in or below the TCM end address or the load address is within the BTCM address range, if the image does not fit into a single TCM bank, then return error
        10.1.2 If we are not loading onto R5 core 0 or we are loading into an address greater than TCM end address and we are not loading into the BTCM address range, do the checks for the R5 core 1 that we just did to see if in address ranges and we fit in a bank
        10.1.3 If we are instead loading onto R5 lockstep, and we are loading into and address less than tcm start + 4*bank length, check to see if we fit into 4 banks. If not return error. (so does this imply a single core only gets 1 TCM bank?)
        10.1.4 Set the load address to the validated and adjusted address
    10.2 if early handoff supported and Get the destination device (again, but it is a pointer that is read, so it is cheap, but still, this whole thing feels like a mess)
    10.3 if early handoff supported and we are booting into the PS, updated destination CPU
    10.4 if early handoff supported and there is another partition, gets the next partitions CPU and dev (as in 10.1 and 10.2)
    10.5 if early handoff supported and check early handoff CPU (dest CPU is R5 0, R5 1, or R5 L, then true, else false) is legal and we are not booting onto the current device the FSBL is running on, then we can early handoff
11. if there are more partitions but we can early handoff, then perform early handoff. Otherwise, load next partition by incrementing partition number and restarting stage 3 (is there a legal order of partitions for early handoff?)
12. if there are no more partitions, then move to stage 4

Xilinx Stage 4 (handoff):
1. Handoff
    1.1.

On Error in above steps -> ErrorLockdown
